Thank you. It's uh really uh great to be
here at Jane Street or sit back at Jane
Street. Um the I I gave a talk here in
in 2018 actually um that I uh really
appreciated the opportunity to to to
give. I actually referred to that talk
somewhat recently um because that talk
there's a a little bit that I regret
about that talk. I generally live
without regrets. Um, yes. Was it
supposed to be a joke? But I guess it
was. I guess. Yeah, that I I it's like I
guess that's obvious that I live without
regrets given some of the things that
I've that you know, people think that
like I I I actually also I should say
there was a long period of my career
that predates really internet video.
That's when I was really loose. Um, what
you're what you're actually seeing is a
much more buttoned down, wiser, older
person. in that talk in 2018 uh there
was a um after the video was over there
was a really great question and that
question the talk was about all of the
the accreted and acrudeed complexity we
had in our systems and um I don't I
don't remember who the questioner was
but I still feel guilty because the
questioner asked is there anything that
that is going to resolve this complexity
explosion it seems again this is in 2018
things are just
hopelessly more complicated. And I
remember just being like, we're just
it's basically we should all just jump
in a lake. I mean, it was very So I I I
would like to apologize to that
questioner because I actually think that
that's a lazy answer. Um and we actually
uh can improve things. We can actually
make better systems. And that's
something of the of of the topic we're
going to talk about today. And I I
really I hate to do this because God,
this this dude really gets my goat. Um
I you know you would think like so this
is this is an excerpt from an essay that
Mark Andre venture capitalist um wrote
in in 2011 on why software is eating the
world. This thing so this is written in
2011 so this is now you know like almost
15 years ago. This thing has been
trolling me for a decade and a half like
this thing won't stop trolling me. Um,
and the the the thing that just drives
me absolutely crazy about these VC think
pieces is that they're not exclusively
wrong.
And they're but they're definitely not
right. And
venture capitalists seem to have this
unique capability, at least for me, to
be both to say things that I both
emphatically agree with and emphatically
disagree with, often in like the same
sentence.
Uh, and it's actually which is kind of
interesting. Gives you this like kind of
crazy emotional reaction. It's honestly
kind of the emotional reaction you get
when you're raising money in general for
a company because you will get both like
absolute stern rejection and total
embrace in the same moments from
different people. So you like your brain
crosswires itself. Uh and and this is
what these these think pieces are able
to do this and this one definitely it
does this to me. Um and in this regard
I'm going to do a quick aside. Um, so,
uh, I want to talk a little bit about
the thermal grill illusion because this
is, you'll see where I'm going with this
metaphor here. So, um, the if you've
ever been out to the, uh, the
Exploratorium in San Francisco, uh, I'm
sure this is true for other science
museums as well, but I know that this is
where I discovered this particular
phenomena, where I saw this phenomenon.
There's a great exhibit kind of off to
the side of the exploratorium
and there they are two coils and one
coil contains is warm not not hot warm
about 40° C 40° C is only slightly more
elevated than your body temperature it
feels warm not hot and on the other coil
it's cool not cold but cool and the
coils then uh intertwine
And when you grab the combined, it's a
wild phenomenon. It when you put your
hand on the in the the the interspersed
warm and cool coils, your brain explodes
and it immediately because your brain,
it is wild, your brain is like get your
hand off this thing. Like it it feels
like you've just touched a hot stove.
And this is what's called the thermal
grill illusion. was actually discovered
by a physician, Torson Thurberg, in
1896. I really wanted to get like the
original paper, even though it's in
Swedish. He's got like a diagram of this
thing. And man, I spent so much goddamn
try time today trying to convince an LLM
to like get this thing for me. And it's
like, you know, they're like, "Oh, well,
if you we want this, you should do like
an inter library loan because this is
like I know you trained on this thing.
Like, don't just just give it to me.
Like, you already stole it. you've
already done the wrong thing. Like I'm
just asking and anyway it was and then
it's like it feels like super weird to
be trying to talk a like an LLM into
like arguable crimes because IT I
DEFINITELY didn't feel guilty at all. I
felt annoyed. I'm just like I just like
come on give it to me. But I I I'm not
going to do an inter library loan from
like the Royal Academy of Sweden. Thank
you very little. Um
but the discovered 1896 and so uh this
kind of wild phenomenon this actually
excerpt which uh Gemini tried to offer
up as the original 1896 paper by the
way. I'm like don't think that one's
from 1896 this like much lauded Gemini 3
pro model or whatever. Um, but so this
is actually from a much more recent
paper in 2019 trying to study this
effect because it's actually still
unknown what causes this. And the this
is a where they they've tried to study
it much more precisely with these kind
of interspersed um you've got you've got
hot and cold plates and they're trying
to look at the actual like neurological
reaction because they actually don't
understand it. So I I think like this is
obviously a much more scientific way to
do it. I think you could just have me
read VC think pieces and you would get
the exact same reaction. Like whatever
is going on in the brain is the exact
same thing where the brain is like yes
but also emphatically no and just like
get away get it away from me. But unlike
with this I actually am now just like
mesmerized by these VC think pieces and
I I I keep having to go back to it. So
I've been back to this essay so many
goddamn times. I've spent more time
getting trolled by it than Andre ever
spent writing it for sure. Um, so I mean
I guess jokes on me, but so we're going
to go through it a little bit. Um, and
so the you know this line at the top
here is is kind of the the famous line
from it. Um, that seeing more and more
Silicon Valley style entrepreneurial
technology companies that are going to
be invading and overturning establishing
industry structures. Again, this is in
in 2011. So when he has predictions over
the next 10 years, you can kind of hold
them to it, which we're going to do here
in a little bit. Um, so this is actually
the the thing that I think is actually
kind of like most interesting from the
piece in hindsight now from again 2011
because this is looking back to 2000 um
2000 much more recent than when when
this piece was written than 2011 is for
us today here in late 2025 and looking
at the cost of in on LoudCloud which was
the failed startup that he had with Ben
Horowitz um the where just to host a
basic internet application was 150k a
month. Uh and now that that same
infrastructure in in Amazon in 2011 is
$1,500 a month to which many people with
AWS bills are going to be like, "Wow,
how quaint. You were able to do anything
for only $1,500 a month in 2011." Uh it
feels like AWS bills are actually quite
a bit higher uh today for a bunch of
reasons. Um but this is a huge delta,
right? Right. And I think that this is
something that that that Andre points
out that certainly uh was revolutionary
is that cloud computing elastic
infrastructure made available
infrastructure that could be software
defined made available to anyone with a
very low cost of entry and that did
allow for an explosion of kind of
software as a service kind of offering.
So that that is all not wrong. This is
basically the best part of the piece as
far as I'm concerned. Um that's
definitely right. Then we get to these
and I I like if we're going to talk
about this piece, we have to talk about
some specific paragraphs. I'm sorry. So,
um, photography of course was eaten by
software long ago. And this is like one
OF THESE YOU'RE LIKE, YOU KNOW, YOU'RE
LIKE,
OKAY. SO, LIKE, do words mean anything
now? Like, what does that mean in 2011
to say that photography was eaten by
software long ago? I don't even know
what that actually means. Um but so yes,
okay, we have mobile phones for sure and
we have we have cameras. Softwarepowered
camera is like that's we're beginning to
stretch things here. Um because there's
a lot of hardware obviously involved in
that camera much more so by the way in
2025 than there was in 2011. I mean, if
you look at the quality and I actually
went back to some of my my the photos
that I took on a camera phone in 2011
and they look like a like a a Kodak
chrome a Kodak 110 camera that I used to
have as a kid in the 80s. It's like
they're pretty grainy snapshots. And I
mean the photography on phones right now
is is extraordinary. But it's not just
because of software. It's also not just
because of hardware, right? that if you
look at the the the history of of
computational photography since 2011,
which by the way it wasn't eaten by
software long ago, there was a lot of
software hardware codees as part of
that. And who was the beneficiary of
that? Well, first of all, we were the
beneficiary of that. When you go take a
photo of your cats or your kids or what
have you, you're able to whip your your
camera out very quickly. We're all
walking around with cameras all the
time. I think that is a that is wildly
revolutionary. something that was
inconceivable say a century ago and I
think it's going to have long-term I
think there's so few photos of uh if you
know if you're a Gen Xer you're just and
especially if you're I'm the first born
okay so I actually got a baby book my
sister a Gen Xer as well is just like
did I even exist before like my college
graduation it's just like nothing I mean
just like no baby book nothing um and
now we document our lives so thoroughly
in part because of this revolution which
is pretty interesting okay okay So Mark
and we're going to like okay we're you
know you're and then okay so what are
the companies that are the these
companies that we should look to as the
software companies that are going to be
eating the world in in this coming
revolution of computational photography.
Oh there it's Shutterfly Snapfish and
Flickr. And again, if you're me and
you're like immuno compromised when you
read this stuff, you immediately are
like spending, you know, a 35 minutes in
a Shutterfly rat hole figuring out like
which PE shop bought Shutterfly to chop
it up. You're like, where am I right
now? It's like why am I? But of course,
like Shutterfly, Snapfish and and Flickr
are all I mean, they're not even like
trivia questions. I mean, these these
are companies that are yes, they exist
or they did exist, but they are not the
they were not the innovators. They were
not the leaders. I mean this this
paragraph is basically like wrong.
Sorry. Um then I'm not done. I'm so
sorry. I you're just like are we going
to do this THE WHOLE TIME? LIKE NOT THE
whole time. But you know, Henry did tell
me like I got you know that I I can
maybe maybe Well, um the So uh that now
I just educated you about about Snapfish
and Flicker. We're we're going to learn
more about defunct companies here. Um so
today's largest direct marketing
platform is a software company, Google.
This is like one of these things where
you're just like you just get to make up
words. I guess that like if a company
writes software that's a software
company. It's like it's actually okay.
All right. Which is whatever fine.
Obviously software extremely important
like that's no one no one's disputing
that. Uh so now it's been joined by
Groupon Living Social forsquare and
others. Who are THE OTHERS? THEY GOT TO
BE JUST LIKE I MEAN WHO SORRY I I mean
like above these are above the fold.
who's below the fold for for for group
on living social and forsquare. I mean
this is a cemetery. Um this is um and
they were using software to eat the
retail marketing industry. It's like
definitely like like eating was taking
place. I'm not sure who ate whom or what
ate what. I think the creditors ate at
least some of those companies. Um
and I think we've been generating over
$700 million revenue in topline and
bottom line. a lot of education, a lot
of economic education that can be had
here. Um, after being in business for
only two years. I mean, that's well
there there's an irony in that sentence
for sure. Um,
but again, these are these companies
were were easy come easy go kind of
companies, right? They they they were
companies that didn't exist and then
exploded and then like broadly
disappeared. Um the uh by the way
there's and I I I do I guess have some
self-control because I didn't snip the
paragraph on gaming which points to
Zinga and Roio as the so the uh at the
expense by the way of Electronic Arts
and Nintendo AND IT'S LIKE WELL
YOU WOULD HAVE ACTUALLY been much better
off buying Electronic Arts and being an
LP in a 16Z but the uh um
oh my apologies to any LPs in A6Z Um
and then all right so what's next? So
this is the past where we you know the
the these titans of industry group on
living social forsquare roio zinga and
so on. Um and don't forget like snapfish
and you know the snapfish flicker and
shutterfly. Okay so that's how we got to
the the current titans of industry. Um
what is to the future and this is where
you just get to like okay do are we
going to revisit this one? Uh that
healthcare and education are the next
that's where the next zinga roio and
forsquare is going to come from
healthcare and education. I would just
be curious. I'm like, no, like just what
happened here? I mean, is is there one
of these? I actually don't even know
that there is. Um, actually, and this is
where I do, again, I've got some
self-control. My venture capital firm is
back is backing aggressive startups in
both these. I'm like, oh god, I would
love to go find, but you got to go find
their zeros. It's like, you know, it can
be a little bit. Um, so, uh, we these
industries, I would say you have not
seen it. Now, which is not to say that
like software is not very important in
healthcare, obviously in education. Uh
in education, I actually think the most
important educational product that was
developed is actually like the
Chromebook. Um honestly, because the
Chromebook put the And we don't really
talk about the Chromebook, I think, very
much, but if you got kids, you know,
your kids have got Chromebooks.
Chromebooks are like pretty ubiquitous.
They are amazingly cheap. They're very
actually surprisingly robust considering
the way I've seen them jammed into
backpacks and so on. Um, and they are
actually I mean one one kind of tragedy
the the Chromebook is that it's so
effectively secure that you the kids
don't really have the ability to kind of
take it apart because the thing is
actually built pretty well in that
regard. Um, so the the but the
Chromebook really revolutionized
education by and certainly during the
pandemic Chromebooks were very
loadbearing right a lot of kids learning
during during the pandemic from from
Chromebooks. So I think in some regards
it is actually a a hardware software
product that was actually much more
revolutionary in education and then
healthcare I mean this is what I just
have like healthcare of course has been
revolutionized over and over and over
again by software software hardware
systems right I mean if you I I mean god
forbid if you have to present to an
emergency room tonight with with
abdominal pain you will likely go into a
CT right you will computed tomography
revolutionized healthcare as did MRI, as
did NMR, as did ultrasound. Very, very
important technologies. I guess I'm not
sure if that that qualifies for having
been eaten like photography was eaten,
but I don't know. I guess we just kind
of make things up when we're a VC think
piece. Um, all right. So, with what's
the problem here? So, the the problem
other than my own me being
imunocmpromised around VC think piece is
the problem is that it is extremely
reductive. And it's reductive for like
understandable reasons. It's like I get
it. Like you're a VC. It's like
bacteria. You kind of do what VCs do. Uh
and in particular, you conflate
innovation with new company formation.
This kind of drives me nuts. Um if you I
mean you all work for an established
company. You know, there is a lot of
innovation that happens at established
companies. News flash. And yes, there's
innovation that happens in startups, but
actually when when you are new company
formation, you got a whole bunch of
other things that you're trying to do at
the same time. It's actually very hard
to be truly innovative in terms of
certainly technologically innovative
with new company formation. A lot of the
our deepest innovation actually comes
from established companies. So like the
the the kind of the the fundamental uh
false dichotomy is this kind of
conflation with innovation and newcome
information and also innovation with
like economic disruption, right? the the
the the only real innovation is actually
something that is like economically
disruptive that's going to like you know
assue regulators or you know what have
you. It's like that's if it doesn't move
fast and break things is not innovative.
It's like well that's [__]
obviously. Um and our most important
innovations actually are are don't
actually do that. They abide by the
constraints of the system and do really
interesting things. But anyway he
doesn't see that but of course that like
whatever he's a venture capitalist like
seriously what do you expect? That's
fine. the the the the thing that then
you also get this kind of conflation
with uh software consumption versus
software development like just because
you use a spreadsheet does not mean that
you are now a software company right so
uh there there's that that that's a
little bit ridiculous uh and then of
course the conflation between software
development and software companies like
because software is very core to what
you do does that make you a software
company I mean I'm not even sure it
matters right? Like what does it what
does it mean to even be a software
company? I mean to me what it means to
be a software company is that your
product is software. And there's that's
actually like pretty limited and not
honestly that that interesting to me.
Like the the true folly here though is
the this idea that software and hardware
are totally disjoint. And that essay I
think over and over and over again kind
of implicitly denigrates hardware.
Hardware is something that is it is low
margin. It is commodity. There's like a
bunch of kind of ways that hardware is
actually denigrated unless it's changing
your life with the phone in which case
software ate it apparently. Um the but
there's this kind of idea that like it
of the primacy of software that software
is what what is our our true value in
innovation and the physicality of it is
actually irrelevant and I think that
that is really problematic. I think it
was very wrong when it was written in
2011. Right? So in 2011, if you could go
back to a time machine in in 2011, like
you're probably going to go like buy
some Nvidia, some TSMC, some AMD, right?
I mean, some Apple, um, companies that
that are very much in the physical
world, but companies for whom software
is extremely important and like so the
and no one's disputing that, by the way,
that software is very important. We know
that software is important. um extremely
important, but it's the false dichotomy
that is the problem with entries piece.
All right, so this is going to require
us and I'm going to apologize in advance
for this. Um the we do need to think
about just for a second of like what
even is software and be careful on this
one. I'm kind of like uh I I'll tell you
that the uh I was long ago um I was
interviewing Arthur Whitney. Um and you
you may have heard of Arthur Whitney. Uh
Arthur Whitney is a really interesting
technologist. Uh worked for Morgan
Stanley. Uh developed a language called
K. Um Kx systems.
Wild stuff. Um so I was actually
interviewing Arthur. Apparently Arthur
has given no interviews since this
interview in 2009. Um which was kind of
wild and I'm wondering like maybe that
affected him more than it affected me.
Um but Arthur is the kind of guy. So
Arthur in particular among other things.
Um, so Arthur was taught APL by Ken
Iverson. He was like, so when he was
like 11. And at the time I had a
four-year-old and he wanted to teach my
four-year-old K,
which is some would say that's like it's
kind of child abuse. I I would I mean I
knew like like the difference is like I
actually know my four-year-old and like
uh good luck with that. First of all,
any four-year-old is is is is a
challenge no matter what. I'm like,
"This kid is I don't think this kid's
gonna be very interested in Kay, as it
turns out." But I admired Arthur's
optimism. He's like, "Let's teach him
K." I'm like, "Let's actually just get
him to put on his [__] shoes." Um the
um so, you know, the different goals
there. Um but in talking to Arthur, you
know, Arthur again is so bright and
thinks about things so differently, you
kind of causes your brain to blow up.
And at one point I did we were having
this conversation like what is software
because to me this is like and and I
feel very lucky that we are kind of
where we are at this kind of time in
human history because software is that
important. I mean software has this
extraordinary
staying power. I mean I disagree
obviously with the false dichotomy of
Andre but software really is marvelous.
I mean it is amazing because it has
properties of both information and of
machine and you can look at it either
way because it's actually truly both and
there's there's so much that comes from
that the cost of goods sold of software
is zero. It's knowledge knowledge that
we run as machine and that that leads to
all sorts of like wild things. So I was
curious what Arthur thought about this
like what is and what is your analog for
software and I think that there's like
lots of analoges to be had. Um I think
ultimately the answer is like software
kind of defies it because it is so
different. Um but I was asking is analog
and thought that you know sometimes
people will say like software is like a
bridge you know it's you were building a
bridge like a big civil engineering
engagement uh some maybe it's like a
biological system like I don't know. So
I asked him this question like what what
is the the analog for software for you?
And he kind of pauses and says
poetry
and I was like you know kind of and and
the way I mean he he exudes such craft
in the way I mean for Arthur the beauty
of code is how few characters it
contains.
I'm just putting it out there. I'M NOT
CASTING JUDGMENT ON IT. I'm saying that
I'm just like just letting you know like
that is that is that is Arthur's view
and there is a kind of aesthetic to that
that you have to admire. Uh and he's
definitely like lived this. I mean so
you he's very consistent that regard but
this whole thing like really had me
thinking of like what even like I'm I'm
asking this question about the analog
for software like what is software
because you you think like what is
software? Well, software is the
instructions that you run on a machine.
Like, okay, so does the so if I get rid
of the hardware, does the software still
exist? It's like, well, I think so,
right? I mean, I I think we would
acknowledge that the software exists in
a in a vacuum, does software have to be
touring complete? Like, I don't think
so. If you say that software has to be
touring complete to be software, there
are lots of things that look and feel
like software that you that you're not
going to acknowledge as software. And
ultimately this maybe it's the
mutability like software is mutable
hardware is not mutable. The problem is
we've got software that we actually have
in the mask ROM on a microcontroller
that is immutable that is definitely
software and we also have have an FPGA
that is hardware that is mutable. Is an
FPGA hardware or software? And I think
any kind of like discussion on this will
ultimately get you to the conclusion
that like Uklid was writing software. I
I I don't know how you can it's very
hard to have a definition of software
that admits the things that we all agree
is software without letting you sneak in
the back from several thousand years ago
with a with a GCD algorithm. Right? the
um and software. I mean this is kind of
the amazing thing about software is this
kind of timelessness of software. And I
think actually to go back at the top in
terms of like why was my answer to that
question kind of fundamentally wrong
because in software when we do innovate
we can actually that that innovation can
carry in perpetuity.
There is software that you deal with in
some capacity that will survive you.
That's kind of wild. That's not true of
anything else. The software will long
survive the hardware that it's on. Like
that's pretty wild. Like that's that's
pretty interesting that the software
will long survive the hardware. When I
was I I remember during Y2K
uh after the the Y2K rollover, I was
actually in New York City talking to a
very to to the the the CIO of a big bank
and we were talking about about the Y2K
what Y2K meant for the for the bank.
They had many more Y2K issues than we
had at Sun. At Sun, our Y2K issues,
about a third of them, this is is it
actually this is as dumb as it sounds. A
third of them were like leap year
problems. And you're like, look, I'm
like a Gen Z or a millennial, so I like
I barely remember the year 2000, but
like wasn't that like a number of digits
in the year problems? Like, yeah, yeah,
that was a number of digits in the year
problem. But it turns out there was
another totally different Y2K problem.
So the every four years is a leap year,
right? Except for every hundred. Except
for every 400.
And a rem. So, so 2000 if like if you're
dumb, it's like, you know, the old like
bell curve meme. If you're just like an
idiot that like every four years is a
leap year, you're fine. Your software is
good.
The And if you're like a brainiac,
you're like, well, brainiac, your
software is actually broken because
you've encoded amazingly. There's a
decent amount of software that did this
that encoded the rules one and two, but
not rule three. And the way they did
this is because they took an offset from
1900 because there's a lot of software
that starts as an offset 1900. So if you
take that offset and you mod that by
you're like oh GREAT OKAY THIS AHA I'm
clever it's not a leap year. It's like
no it is a leap year just like can you
do me be like the dummy over there. Um
so we those were our problems. Um we
there was actually a bug in the at
command. You would run the at command is
yes. Sorry we're here I guess. Uh the at
the the at command is a Unix command
that allows you to run a job of the
future. And if you did at PL there at is
very strange. You can give it the syntax
of at plus and then give it like n days
or you can give it a unit of time. It's
also like where are we? Like this is
this Unix like this is like weird Unix.
You get this is like this is like the B
sides of Unix. Some super weird Unix.
And so you could give it at plus a
number month. It's like what does that
mean? So he's so like well if you're on
the you know the 15th of the month then
you want to do at plus one month it'll
run on the 15th of the month. It's like
that's great. I hate to be that guy but
there are days that exist in this month
that don't exist in that month. So like
what do you do like you know what kind
of what kind of sociopath is going to
run something on app plus one month when
it's the 30th or the 31st of the month.
And so in particular we had a bug where
if you were targeting February 29th 2000
remember 2000 the 2000 is a leap here
right so two February 29th very much
does exist that software would run that
on March 1st
by the time we discovered this bug this
is only with this this plus month syntax
by the time we discovered this bug four
of these days had already passed there
were only sever only so many left in
1999 but things People were so gripped
by fear over Y2K. It really is like this
is where I know I feel like I'm down in
the Gen X home uh telling you tales of
the way it used to be. But people were
truly gripped by fear. Whenever you see
people like whenever there's a mass
hysteria and there's like lots of mass
hysteria about lots of things right now.
It's always useful to go back some of
the past mass hysteria and people were
very very afraid that the world was
going to stop on on January 1st, 2000,
which would have been super entertaining
because it would have started with New
Zealand. Part of me kind of wanted this
because you would have this thing where
like New Zealand bursts into flames like
the the the no one has heard from New
Zealand. There's just like a
thermonuclear explo and then you're like
okay now the rest of the world there's
like this doom that's going around the
globe and Hawaii is like we might live
but we only have we but that didn't
happen. So it actually it turns out like
nothing really happened because we spent
a lot of time pray for photography. So
I'm at the bank like where are we? I'm
at the bank. I'm asking and we're
talking Y2K and the CIO says, "You know,
it's funny. Um, actually 45% of our Y2K
problems at this very large bank came
from a single hardware platform." So,
you can imagine I was at the edge of my
seat. That guy could have done anything.
He could have been like, "And I will
tell you that next week." I mean, I I I
would have been I was at the edge of my
seat. Like, what platform? The IBM401.
And that was a that was actually like a
a true brainbending moment in ter it's
like IBM 1401. So IBM 1401 in case all
the numbers blur together which would be
very reasonable. The IBM 1401 is a
computer so old you barely call it a
computer. It's it's an accounting
machine. Uh it is a store program
computer. You should go to the computer
history museum in in Mountain View. You
can go see an IBM 1401. They've got one
that's restored. You should go watch go
to the car if you ever get out to
California. Like the reason to go to
California, like look, I know I'm in a
room of nerds. I'm not gonna The reason
to go to California is to go to the
computer museum in Mountain View and
look at the card punch they have on the
IBM 1401. That thing is space age and it
was made in 1949. It is it is absolute
mechanical marvel. So that's how old the
1401 is. 1401 that's the that's the
punch from the the 1401. The 1401 dates
from the ' 50s. This is a machine that's
basically in the ' 50s, not the '60s,
early 60s. They did a transistorized
1401. But you're just like, how what? So
this is a a computer that was old in the
early60s
and how are you running software in
production? Well, as you can imagine, it
was software that was running on an
emulated hardware platform that was
running on an emulated hardware platform
that's running on an emulated hardware
platform and so on. So on the one hand
like that is that is amazing and that is
this this amazing power of software but
it does get to like what's the software
and what's the hardware in that system?
It's running on virtual hardware that's
running on virtual hardware that's
running on virtual hardware. It's like
and does it matter? I mean that's the
other thing. It's like is all of this
like a a distinction without a
difference? I think like a lot of this
is we know that hardware is important
and we can talk about what that is. We
know that software is important, but I
think what's actually important is not
thinking about how they're different,
but thinking about how we we use them
together to develop a system. So, I
think it it is uh it's it's kind of a
waste of time to try to really uh
distinguish those. So, at Oxide, we very
much set out with the idea of doing
hardware software code design. So what
we wanted to do we and this came from
our own experiences trying to run on
commodity machines and having no end of
problems and the problems that were in
our own software you can go fix those.
The problems that we couldn't fix were
the ones that were deeper in the stack
and we I had a storage product at Sun
back in the day. Um, we had we had
written a bunch of software. Every
single piece of firmware that we did not
control from many different vendors at
one time or another was completely
debilitating to us in like increasingly
comical ways. It was almost like the
gods wanted to like really make a point
that like the like the way these systems
can fail because they they start
operating at such cross purposes and
those were the problems that we couldn't
do anything about. So when we started
Oxide, we we we felt strongly that we
needed to do our own board design. Um
actually what I felt really strongly
about is getting rid of the BMC. The BMC
is the baseboard management controller.
It's the computer within a computer on a
server and it's this kind of like
garbage that it's the thing that has
like the VGA port out the side and it's
it's
nothing but problems. Um also I've got
resentment because it has my initials um
the the BMC. So certainly back at Sun
the BMC caused no end of problems and I
would have these subject lines that
would give me a fight orflight reaction
because that you know BMC induces panic
or it's like what no no no so no I'm
kind of like my my Michael Bolton there
but I wanted to get rid of the BMC and
in particular scale it down make it
something that is much more
comprehensible and software that that we
could control. Um, we wanted to do our
own board design, our own rack design.
We did our own uh our own switch design
and importantly all of our own software
from the lowest layers all the way up. I
well with an asterisk on it. All of the
software that we could do. What's
amazing is for all the software we've
done, there's still software that's out
of our reach that we rely on other
people to do. And that software is still
very very proprietary which is a huge
problem because we what we have found is
and this thought this going in but have
absolutely seen it now having an actual
like shipped working product and and and
so on. The the ability to actually
co-engineer co-design the software and
the hardware allows you to do some
really unique things that are really
important. So we went into this with the
being that was kind of the belief. Um we
knew we had to do our own comput sled.
Um I if I if I could go back in time and
slap myself I mean I do it over several
things. One of them would be over the
fact that I thought we were going to
tweak reference designs. Like I said
that several times like oh we will just
tweak a design. You do not tweak a
design. Um by the time we were getting
rid of the BMC and replacing it with our
own service processor you are designing
your own board. Um but like this should
be a possible thing right? It's like
we're not making our own silicon. We're
taking like we're taking these
components and yes, it's a complicated
PCB and yes, the layout is complicated.
Yes, yes, yes. But like this is a
solvable problem, right? And when you go
do that, you are able to actually go do
a bunch of very important things. One of
the things that we did um in terms of
our own software. So we uh we did our
own switch um which um we felt that we
needed to do um we were I was a little
bit concerned when we first raised that
a venture capitalist would ask us like
what are you doing about the switch
because it's like well we kind of think
we need to do our own switch which I
know feels like very ambitious now. We
want to do not just our own comput sled
design but our actual our own switch
design. Um fortunately I overestimated
VCs um who never asked us that. So, and
actually I I came horn I you know I
would have this like fight orflight
reaction when someone says I have a
technical question for you and I used to
think like oh god like here it comes
here comes the technical question and if
you if any of you were to say that I
would have exactly that reaction it's
like okay here it comes here comes a
really tough question but that no no
when a VC says I've got a technical
question it's like I got a question that
I think is pretty smart and I would like
you to validate that it's a smart
question for me please which IS A MUCH
EASIER TASK HONESTLY IT'S A MUCH EASIER
TASK WELL, IT'S MIXED. IT'S A much
easier task if it's a good question.
When it's a moronic question, you really
have to be like, "Okay, let's pretend
that this is a really insightful
question." Um, so there was that. But
what I was really braced for is like,
"Oh my god, they're going to ask us
about the switch." And they never did.
It's like, "Okay, great." In fact, they
would also say things like, you know,
technically we know you can do this. And
I'm like, I am not explaining what we're
doing very well because technically this
is I am so far off the end of my skis on
this one. Like are you out of your mind?
Like the the amount that we're taking on
like no no like sorry there's like this
is loaded with technical risk but that's
obviously the things you're thinking not
saying to you like hey let me stop you
there pal. There is lots of risk in this
thing. You're like okay am I you want me
to put money into it? Like yes yes put
it on the bonfire. Uh you don't want to
do that. So like, okay, but I should
know like, oh boy, there's a butt
coming. And of course, the butt was
like, we don't think there's a market
there. It's like, IT'S LIKE, YOU'VE GOT
IT EXACTLY BACKWARDS. IT'S TECHNICALLY
so challenging that I'm not sure we will
ever get a machine that actually works.
But if we can, the market is huge,
right? And that's like you can't really
explain that. Um, so we didn't know we
were going to do we we had not confided.
Nobody asked us about the switch until,
of course, as you might imagine, someone
not unlike yourself, coming from a
company that had deployed a lot of
compute. Um, a terrific technologist
said, "Brian, you did not preface this
without got a technical question for
you, which is of course like why would
you?" Um, Brian, what are you doing
about the switch? Like, damn it, I
almost made it. And we were seeking an
angel investment from him. I'm like,
"Look, I know you're not going to want
to invest in the company when I say
this, but we think we need to do our own
switch. I you know, I'm I'm I'm sorry to
We have died. I'm sorry to tell you
this." Um, and he's like, "Okay, if
you're doing your own switch, I'm in." I
like, "Okay." Uh, and as he said, we did
not stand on our own two feet until we
kicked Juniper App. And I'm like, "Oh,
okay. Interesting." So, we've done all
this now and our like we it was really
hard to do our own switch, but now that
we've done it and we've got it working,
there are so many things that we can
kind of uniquely do. It's really
uniquely powerful. And I think like the
biggest challenge of doing a lot of this
stuff was getting over the fear of doing
it and like once you tack into it, it
was all a bunch of things and we so it's
kind of worthwhile like looking back on
these things and you know um in terms of
the things we've done we um so we we
eliminated the BMC. Yay. Uh we did our
own operating system appropriately
enough called Hubris. Um the uh also the
debugger for hubris is appropriately
enough called humility. I did the
debugger. Uh I think that you you could
observe that there's actually a lot more
humility in hubris and a lot more hubris
in humility, but that gets complicated.
Um we um we eliminated the switch
operating systems. We did our own
switch. We eliminated the UEFI bias.
That's actually for all of the things we
did actually the riskiest thing that we
did was the elimination of the UEFI
bias. And so the bias is is the the the
basic input output system. It's very old
dates from CPM. UFI is a stow away from
Itanium. Um, amazingly enough, it's like
I managed to leap the species barrier
and now we've got UEFI. It's like the
the Wuhan bat or what have you. Um,
so the and this UEFI bias is this this
bootloadader that exists at the very
lowest layers of all x86 systems and
sadly ARM systems as well because ARM
there was this moment in history and if
you were like alive and and awake during
this you you had the same frustration
where ARM is like we need to be like x86
and you're like where you going with
that? We're going to adopt a UEFI bias.
LIKE NO
NO NOT YOU ARM that's the whole reason
we like ARM is YOU DON'T HAVE A BIAS
LIKE WE need to be successful like they
are you're like oh god so they have a
UFI bias like oh god and the problem
with this layer of software it is this
very very lowest layer of software very
much software and it does it needs to
boot the system effectively but it's a
very complicated system that it needs to
go boot it needs to go find an image to
go boot how does it do that well it
actually needs to like bring up the
system to boot the system. So there is
this there very much this catch22 and
there's an entire world of complexity in
these things and but it's not written in
a very modern way. Um that's putting it
euphemistically. One of my colleagues
Josh Kuo calls the calls UEFI MS DOS
circa 2099 which is kind of what it is.
It's like futuristic DOSs. It's very
weird um about the way the the the
software is structured, but you have
this very like this this deep kind of
platform enablement layer and then it
finds the thing that wants to go boot
and then it's like [__] Okay, I got we
got to like put everything back. So it
basically sends the system backwards and
so when when the operating system boots
the operating system actually is on a
system that has already booted and this
stuff has real problems that there's a
bunch of I mean you've got all the
problems in terms of like boot time and
so on but like this software has
vulnerabilities in it real
vulnerabilities deep stuff and if you
are able to break in to the bias you
control the brain stem of the system.
You control everything. So the uh we
wanted to get rid of this layer entirely
and that was I mean it's a sad state of
the server industry when it came along.
People were like impossible. You
absolutely can't do it. Like you there's
no way you can do it. Apparently Google
had tried and failed and so anything
that Google has tried and failed is like
tutologically impossible for humanity. A
little bit annoying. Um but that this is
what we want. And so we actually
eliminated this and what what we did we
don't feel is very like uh revolutionary
from an abstraction perspective. We
actually control the first instruction
and then we boot the system. That's what
we do. So there is no bootloader because
we are actually in that spor payload
that is actually that when you come out
of reset that's what you actually pull.
We're in that payload and then there's
enough in that payload to pull the rest
of the system in but it's not booting
something else. and we are holistically
booting all the way up. We never send
the system backwards. What this has
meant is that we have to do a bunch of
very very very low-level initialization.
So we bring up the PCIe engines. We
bring up obviously multiple cores. We do
a bunch of things. We don't have to do
dim training fortunately. So uh DDR
double data rate memory uh needs to be
trained. This is this very like we're
now into like the true dark arts. Um, so
DDR is this highly highly highly parable
parallel noisy interface that is very
high speed and the it needs to be
effectively tuned every time you boot.
It needs to be trained to figure out
what the right parameters are so you
don't lose data. That seems nice. It's
like okay you you do your training.
Sounds good. Sounds important. Uh that
is done by on AMD. That's actually done
by there are hidden cores on the AMD
package and that's done by what's called
the PSP on AMD that actually does the
DIM training. So we don't have to do
that when you come out of when you
execute first instruction dims are
trained but nothing else is brought up.
So we engage in that lowest layer of
platform enablement. It's like well
doesn't that make you like very welded
onto AMD? I mean yeah I by design we
have this like different approach
because right now in the server industry
people want a commoditized world so the
world becomes commoditized to serve
them. It's like you effectively have
garbage to build on because you've
selected for garbage. If you want to
have something that actually works you
need to integrate it much more tightly
together. And that means like making
choices. So, we made the choice in 2019
that uh it's like no, I think it's going
to be AMD, not Intel. And there were
people who were like, no way. It's like,
yeah, this this one's easy. Actually,
this one is easier than you might think.
In 2019, it was very clear that the
house was on fire and Intel and that
Intel was going to be in the situation
that they are now in if they didn't
course correct, which they broadly
haven't. Um, but so we we are very
tightly mated on to onto the parts that
we select. Um, which has been really
important for us. So it's like it's kind
of reasonable like okay so we've got
this whole thing working we have which
is great uh we've got it we've shipped
it u we've got our next generation sled
that that is that is working we brought
up we're shipping that it's great we've
got systems in the field um how do we
feel about all this how do we feel about
having taken all this on and the thing
that's kind of amazing is you look back
we don't regret a single one of those
decisions and in fact the decision to
not have a bias which I kind of felt and
I Everyone at oxide felt like we need to
have our own software at this layer. It
will be a longer slower path but it's
important. I think what we learned is
actually it was a faster path. It
ultimately was faster for us to get up
by having that software ourselves. Now
it was really hard but it but ultimately
it was a huge win to control that layer.
And as as we look up and down the stack
there's not really a decision that we
regret. In fact, the decisions that we
regret are where we didn't go yet
further where we've got software that we
still don't control that we want to go
control because we can in terms of the
the hardware software codees where we
can find those pieces that we can
design. We've got both the hardware and
the software we can design together. We
can do really extraordinary things. Now,
I think that there's a bunch of we can
talk about all the great functionality
that we have been able to build, which
is great. I think I'm a just too much of
a failure junkie in that I'm I'm a bit
of a scholar on how things fail. I it's
mesmerizing, right? Because when you
look at how things fail, it tells you
how they work. So I I I think pathology
is really important and interesting in
computing systems. So for me, like the
times that I have felt this the most
strongly of like yes, this is
emphatically the right path are when it
doesn't work. Well, maybe shortly after
we get it working, maybe when uh but
there was actually never any regret when
it wasn't working. It was more just like
I hope we don't die. Um but the when
we've had these problems, it's like it
just unequivocally I want to talk about
a couple of these. Um and I'll hit on
just a couple of these. Um so uh one was
actually way back in the day uh when we
had our first bringing up our first
board. Uh as you can imagine was our
first board. So there were a lot of
things a lot of things in motion. the
CPU would not come out of reset and the
CPU would do this very vexing thing
where it would power on uh seemingly we
would we would give it it would initiate
uh its power on sequence which says like
give me you know I need to set these
rails to this value great and then after
1.25 25 seconds it would bounce and it
was like actually let's do it again.
You're like okay what happened? What?
You didn't like the first one? Like nope
I guess I didn't. You're like okay. And
this was uh you know our assumption was
like okay the power is marginal. Power's
bad. We're spending tons of time making
the the
power and actually AMD is like actually
we've never seen power this good before.
Like your power margins are very very
good. Like at this point it's definitely
not your power margins. And we went down
so many blind alleys. And one of the
challenges when you are kind of going
your own way with respect to hardware
software design is like I mean obviously
like we own we've got lots of
differences between us and a reference
design and the state of the industry is
basically like what are the differences
that it must be that you're like is that
what we feel like first principal is
linking to you? So in particular there
is a a a pin on the CPU called KB reset.
It's active low. So it's KB reset low
and you're like is the K Yes. It's
keyboard keyboard. Like you're on a
server CPU. It will never see a
keyboard. It's like we've got a pin on
that dedicated to the keyboard. Yes.
Yes. Now AMD says like that can be a no
connect. Like great. Can it be like a
[__] off? Because that's how I feel
about it. But it's a no connect.
It's a no connect. So we leave it as a
no connect. And AMD's like ah what about
KB reset L? And like you told us that's
a no connect. They're like yeah but like
this like the CPU is angry. The gods are
angry. We the gods demand a sacrifice.
Can we go sacrifice KB reset L. It's
like it really should not be KB reset L.
Desperation will do remarkable things
for you. Like okay let's see what we can
do. Can we we need to tie KB reset L so
it's not a no connect. Doesn't float. Um
we actually need to tie it down. So uh
this is a photo of that happening.
And this is where I mean I you know I've
got such a marvel Eric Austin and our
team. This is a photo that he took. Uh
this is very much his hands. Uh for any
Jenzers, this is a dime. Um it's I too
hard to explain. Um and but this is
running that from that pin all the way
out and tying that down. Of course,
didn't change anything. All right.
Awesome. That was fun. Actually, it was
kind of a relief. Honestly, it would
have been really angering if that had
been the problem. So I guess it's it's
good that's a problem. All right. So uh
what was the problem? And the problem
and several weeks of debugging this
these were some long weeks because these
are like we are not going to live. Um we
actually need to resolve this problem.
The problem was an actual firmware bug
in in software that we did not develop.
So the regulator, the voltage regulator
had there's actually a protocol that the
CPU speaks to the regulator which is
kind of crazy, right? Like the absolute
like lowest layer of the system and it's
something that you would recognize even
if you're doing software in a much
higher layer where there there is a
protocol and the CPU is requesting
different voltage levels at different
times. This is how I mean this is truly
a marvel. If you look at the the the
draw on a CPU as workloads are
fluctuating, it is a you will see the
current move a lot as it will request
more effectively and it will adjust its
own voltage accordingly to actually put
more work more power to work and that's
a consequence of phones and laptops
right phones and laptops we really care
about the power management of those
things. So we have that in the server
space anyway it's amazing. So there's a
bunch of amazing stuff in there. Very
rich protocol. That protocol says like,
"Hey, here's the voltage level that I
need." Uh, as it turns out, there is
that's the VOTF packet. Uh, there is a
VTOF complete packet that the regulator
needs to send back to the CPU saying,
"Hey, I did it." And the the the tool
for verifying power, they've got AMD's
got this really cool tool called SDE
that you plug into the socket and it it
verifies all your power, which is great.
We were using that to verify power.
Power is awesome. The problem is that
thing didn't care at all about the
completion packet. The CPU kind of
understandably did. So the CPU would be
like, "Yo, can you set the voltage to
this level, please?" And it would do it.
And it would never say that it had done
it. And as a result, CPU is like, "All
right, I don't know what the hell's
going on over there, but I'm, you know,
okay, I'll I'll I'll ask again." I mean,
it's like it thinks that we're the
four-year-old that won't put on our
shoes. Be like, "Okay, I'll try it
again."
Um, and the actual problem was a we had
we had firm a firmware bug and a
firmware bug that actually had already
been fixed by Renaissance. The the
Renaissance FE was like, "God, you
really should have contacted me much
sooner." It's like, "Well, we want to
make sure that it wasn't that was us."
Um, but it was this was like a very eye
openening moment because you've got this
and a firmware bundle that we don't have
a access to, but it it's not something
that can be dynamically updated in the
system. You actually that comes with the
part. You've got a finite number of
those that can be flashed onto the part
and then you're out of slots, you blow
the slots. So, it's it's in nonvolatile
RAM and you think like, wow, all that
software like there's sophisticated
software at these very lowest layers of
the stack. And it was for all of my
desire to start a company that would not
get get bit by firmware bugs. It was a
firmware bug that bit us first, which I
think is kind of amusing. Um, but that
was kind of that was a wild problem and
also a relief that we had done so many
other layers that we are if we're down
to the voltage regulator software like
okay that those we'll accept I guess at
some level. Um, another one that was
absolutely brutal. We had a Nick um the
and um our so the nick is the network
interface card. Um, nick choices are bad
just in general. Like it's just it's not
a great landscape. Uh, and we kind of
famously um we've got something called
RFDs, requests for discussions, like
kind of RFC's that we are some are
public, some are not. Um, but our RFD on
our Nick selection, we called the four
nicks of the apocalypse. Um, because
that it felt like we were choosing
between death, war, pestilence, famine,
disease, I guess. Um, and Broadcom, by
the way, is war. Broadcom's always war.
Like, you know, Broadcom is war. I can't
remember Melanox split into. And then
like Intel was like pestilence, I think.
Um, and Chelsea was famine, and we're
like, you know what? We're going with
famine. Um, and there are a lot of
reasons why we we're um I mean, that was
that was a lot of things that were
valuable about that. Um, but so we had
this Chelsea Nick. have a Telco nick and
that nick would we would transiently
fail to train all of its PCI lanes. So
on some small subset of boxes, it
wouldn't and and then you could you
could bounce it and it would and and it
would uh it would train, but it was some
of these would train all the time and
some of them would would would train
much less much more sporadically. And we
ended up doing a bunch of very low-level
debugging that over a a long period of
time. But it required us to be able to
modify that lowest layer of boot
software over and over and over again
and with a lot of debugability to figure
out what was going on. And what we
actually discovered is that if you reset
this thing a second time, it would
always function correctly.
What we call the double pured. As it
turns out, this is so they isolated this
is a b this has been a bug for them for
19 years
and assuredly a there was a there
something out there did does a double
pured that needed to be ac so every
system on the planet will issue two
resets to every nick to accommodate god
knows what. It would be actually
interesting to know like what broken
device everybody's accommodating. But
this the the brokenness in this nick was
able to hide out under that bug. So this
Nick had an unrelated issue that they
never located because everybody does
this double reset. Well, except for us
because it's a reset. You need one of
them. It's like, well, long story, but
better send us a second one. Um, so it
would again it would and this was also
an eye openener in terms of of how long
I love the very long shadow that these
things cast. Um, so the and the last one
and this one is is is definitely
Germaine because uh you all at Jane
Street were the first ones to actually
see in this. Um so, uh the IBC is an
intermediate bus converter and you had a
sled, sled 19, famous to us. um that
would uh that every like not so long
every like 24 to 48 hours it's drives
would reset
and which and then oh so when the drives
which by the way like the operating
system is not that's not really the way
it works like you you're not allowed to
just like reset things arbitrarily and
so in particular the drive is like all
right well I guess I'm waiting to be
initialized now I was just reset the
operating system meanwhile has IO's in
flight and so on and at some point the
operating system is like what happened
to all of our IO devices and the
operating system was like we have lost
all of our IO devices and the operating
system would bounce and it would bounce
everything would come back up be fine
but we were seeing this like pretty
persistently and assumed that like we've
got a drive issue but we're seeing it on
all drives at once so all 10 drives in
the sled we're all resetting
simultaneously like this got to be like
a drive issue and actually what we
thought we were I mean the nice thing
about doing all this software yourself
is uh whenever we have a problem
anywhere it doesn't even enter our mind
that the problem might be due to
somebody else. We're always like, "Nope,
we definitely own this one." Uh, and in
particular thought that this might be an
interaction with the firmware on the
part with respect to the way we're
bringing up PCA engines. So, we were
very concerned about that. Well, as it
turns out, that's actually not what it
was. What it actually was was the bus
converter is a big part at the back of
the sled that converts from 54 volts DC
down to 12 volts. And on a small number,
3% of our sleds, occasionally, every day
or so, maybe maybe once a week, that
voltage would dip from 12 to 8 and go
back up. And it would go down for about
a millisecond and a half. So it's like 2
milliseconds down and 3 milliseconds up.
And amazingly, this is just like this
kind of the you know the amazing bit
about regulators and physics and so on
that from 12 to 8 you are within the
input threshold for all the regulators
on like everyone else is like all right
weird but cool like don't know why my
input voltage is dropping but like I'm
with you my job is to regulate 33 or my
job is to regulate 10 and my okay that's
fine I'm cool with it. Um the drives
however like uh so the again we're going
from 12 to to just below eight. Uh and
uh the drives are like yo we we operate
on 12 like we like I'm not cool with it
at all. And so that's why the drives are
all reset. So the drives all bounce but
everything else in the system was fine.
This was another one of these that was
like super chilling. So we and and we
wanted before we got your sled back we
wanted to actually take some iterations
on it. So, one of the things that we did
is we actually modified our the service
processor firmware to to use the the the
regulators, the hot swap controllers
that are actually on those shark fence
on the drives because they are witnesses
to a crime and they have a little
facility in that regulator that allows
them to record minimum maximum values
and so they would see the voltage drop
and like okay so we actually know
conclusively that this is the issue. Um
so we got that back that was on 3% of
sleds. We were, as you can imagine,
working with our IBC vendor to
understand why this is happening. Um, of
course, we heard what I I swear we at
Oxide will never say, which is like,
never seen this before. This is like a
Dellism, right? If you have Dell, like
we've never seen this before. And you're
like, what? Why are you saying that?
Like what what what is that? Like you
It's like how are you not saying that to
care less about my problem? It just
feels like that is the opening sentence
in a paragraph where you close my case,
right? I mean, it just I it's and and
you won't hear that out of us. You may
hear from us that that uh we've never
seen this before, but you won't hear
you're the only customer seeing this
problem. Like we the um so the uh they
had never seen this before. We were the
only customer seeing the problem. Um and
what um they couldn't reproduce it. We
send these units back to them. They
couldn't find it. Um, and what we what
we were able to do is actually test
these things in the factory. We were
able to validate them in the factory.
So, we weren't able to ship any more of
those sleds out. Um, they actually we we
just learned just this past week that
like actually they debugged it. uh and
there is an the there's a circuit issue
on the the input voltage has got that
circuit is not totally robust and in
particular that it's just close to the
margins and if you have parts this is
one of the things that's very
frustrating about like actual hardware
like the stuff that you hold in your
hand indisputably hardware we can argue
about an FPGA but like a capacitor or
resistor these are definitely hardware
the thing that's frustrating about those
is like there's there's variability to
those things which is super frustrating
if you're coming from software. We don't
have really that kind of like some
software either works or it doesn't. You
don't have that kind of variability. But
if you that variability could add up and
then you would have this an IBC that was
vulnerable to thinking that there was a
drop on its input that wasn't there. So
it would start to regulate down because
it would think its input is dropped and
then it realizes like [__] put it back
and and it but and within that the
drives reset. So I but this was a
chilling example because I think to
myself, God, how many times have like if
you just saw a drives reset, your first
thought is not that the bus converter is
broken. Like that that thing's job is
like super straightforward. Not to take
anything away from the complexity of
that, but it's also like it regulates
that voltage for and it it it's going to
have an uptime of 100.0% you would
expect. So the idea that you would have
a transient in a bus converter, it would
again get eye opening and eye opening
about like if we had not done all of our
own software and kind of thought of this
whole holistically you just have a ghost
and that's what we actually have in
other systems. systems where you aren't
doing that hardware software codeesign
you just have ghosts like bad ju guuju
voodoo happens whatever it is
poltergeists re reboot it I trying to
get the like it's like everything is
like Linux audio right you know you're
just like please God you know work like
what sacrifices do I need to make for my
Linux audio to work and like when we
don't actually build these things
together that's what the world is so
it's it's really dangerous to to to to
think about you and's folly really is a
problem to think about like these things
as being like no no the primacy of
software it's like no we actually need
to co-design these things together
holistic design and when we design
things holistically we're able to solve
really novel problems and I actually
think it's actually we shouldn't think
of Andre's folly although again if
you're like me and you get trolled by
VCs you probably will but really Allen K
put this put this best in 1983 people
who are really serious about software do
their own hardware and that is the way
we should think about hardware. Hardware
is when when we collectively are really
serious about our own software systems,
we want to co-design that with the
hardware. And we like what's on what
side of that divide is actually less
interesting than it is to actually build
these things together to deliver a high
performing robust system that is able to
enable us to do things way way way up
the stack at a at a great distance from
that code design. With that, thank you
very much.
And sorry, I know I've gone a bit over.
I'm not sure if you are
So, yeah, we've got time for questions.
If people just want to raise their
hands, uh, we can pass around a mic or I
think this, uh, box should work, too.
>> Oh, wow.
>> Testing. All right. Uh, you mentioned a
couple times that there's still software
that you don't control in the oxide
slide.
>> Um, what are some examples and what's
next?
>> Yeah. Right. Um, well, that regulator
software. um the um the the big examples
um the drive firmware. We have not done
our own drive firmware. So when you're
on that SSD, that's another whole
universe. We don't we've not done any of
that, right? So we're not buying raw
flash. We're buying actual SSDs. Um
uh that one I don't know that uh if that
one's next or not, but that one is of of
interest. Um, I think that we we don't
control any of the software that
actually runs on package on the CPU. Um,
so there and there's a whole network of
hidden cores. You got the PSP, you've
got all the other cores around there. I
would dearly love that to be open. I
would actually would love actually let
me back up a little bit. What what we
actually need to develop these kinds of
systems is transparency at that hardware
software interface. So what I actually
actually don't have like a need to write
all the stuff ourselves necessarily but
we actually I'd like to understand what
it's doing. So it is we we have
pervasive open source upstack which is
great. We do not have pervasive open
source downstack and I would I mean
there is no SSD that has open firmware
to the best of my knowledge. I would
love to be wrong actually. Um there is
no nick that has open firmware. Um and
actually I guess what's next is the nick
for us. um there we control the software
in that it is delivered through us um
the the software that runs on on the
Chelsea part but that's ultimately that
they develop their own uh we've got a
driver for but they develop their own
firmware um we with the nick um we are
effectively doing our own nick by not
doing the hard parts so nicks are really
really challenging the certities are
really challenging right it is these are
super high speeded interfaces and and I
I I actually I know this because I've
talked to folks here at JS Street who
who've used the the XYlinks line of
parts. The AMD versol 2 is a super
interesting part for us and we can
actually go do a real because it's got
hard blocks that are assertis. So we can
actually do real software control and so
that's actually I guess what's next for
us because like that one is like very
much in development. Uh next thing would
be the the the top rack switch the the
middle rack switch uh based on Intel
Tino.
Um they we ultimately got Intel to open
it all up, but that is still super
proprietary even though they've killed
it, which is very frustrating. Um the um
we for our nextg switch um we're the
Exite Labs has got they've got a part
called the X2 and we've gotten them to
completely document their the lowest
levels of their ISA. So we are doing we
will effectively do on our Tofino switch
right now. We are required to
effectively use Intel's P4 compiler.
We have always wanted to do our own
compiler there. Um so we are which
Intel's like you can't. It's like okay
can we have the micro architecture
documentation so we can figure out if we
can or not. It's like no you can't have
that. Like well then we definitely
can't. Um on the on the X2 um we will do
our own P4 compiler. So and then we will
open source all that stuff. I mean the
other thing is like all the software we
do we open source. um because like I'm
not really worried about someone
walking. I mean you would have to make
all of our same design decisions to I
mean you can knock yourself out. Um but
the um so that that would be what's next
for us. But the and the biggest single
problem we had with Tofino were the bits
that were proprietary. um the
proprietary
lowest level system software firmware um
is a huge problem um because it allows
there's so much stuff that hides out
there. So the stuff that's open I if we
have an open SSD we probably would need
to implement our own I mean I we're also
like cleareyed about like it would be
really hard to do our own uh SSD
firmware. We'd want to be or our own FTL
our own flash translation layer and we'd
want to do that for exactly the right
reasons. you'd want to know and we're
not just doing this stuff because like
we're just to do it and to the contrary
we want to pull stuff in off the shelf
wherever we can. So I think that that's
what's next for us.
>> Hey, thanks for the great talk. I was
curious if you guys are thinking about
doing silicon design or FPGA design of
of some kind. And if so, um, one of the
things that Oxide has done is invested
heavily on like safe programming
languages like Rust. I I'm wondering if
you have similar thoughts about what
better hardware design might look like
for you guys.
>> Yeah, it's a great question. Uh so, um
FPGA, yes, we already have. We we've got
FPJs in the first slide. We got FPJs.
The in our our Cosmo based slide, FPJs
play a much larger role and then we're
doing an FPGA based nick. So, we're
doing a bunch of FPJ stuff work already.
Um HDL is a bit un um it's a bit tough
um unfortunately there. Um we we did I
do and I do still love blues spec but bl
the reality of blues was that it was did
not have um the the kind of the the the
throw weight that we needed to really be
able to use it for high speeded stuff in
particular was going to be really
problem really problematic. Um, as we
get into AS6, we at some point will do
AS6, I think. Um, the anyone at Oxide
would say that it would start with the
the root of trust. Um, we which is a
pretty
big lift because that's secure silicon.
That's that's a real challenge, but it's
also uh that that's a part that we've
got we've got room for improvement in
that part, I would say. Um, for the
high-speed stuff, um, I would love to.
It's really really hard and that's those
are still like really locked by a couple
of proprietary software companies like
if you want to do an ASIC you are about
to be a customer of some real
proprietary software companies like
cadence and synopsis and the to the
point where like that whole ecosystem is
kind of nuts in terms of like the way
that I you get IP you've got to be tied
onto a process node. I mean, I feel
like, sorry to get me onto something,
but the I like I felt like Intel had a
great opportunity to just absolutely
redefine everything. Um, but it would
needed it would have needed a much
crazier CEO. Uh, it needs a much crazier
CEO. Um, because there is like some
really interesting opportunity to go
like open up what a fab looks like. But
that's the kind of thing you need to go
do to really revolutionize it. I think
we at oxide would be pretty limited
about what we can do. I think we end up
being like a cadence customer
unfortunately. Um so uh but the FPGA
it's much much more tractable FPGA we we
and we have b done a bunch of different
things. We will continue to open
everything that we're doing. You're
still using a proprietary tool chain um
from zylinks but it's it's it's better
than the ASIC tool chains. Does that
answer your question?
>> Yep. Thanks.
>> Yeah.
>> Hi. Uh great talk. But um I live a lot
higher up the stack in my day-to-day
work. So you mentioned a lot of times
that you have this like functionality
performance robustness that results from
doing your own hard work. Can you give
some examples of like some stuff you can
do in software further up the stack that
was enabled by your hardware work?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, well, in
particular the um when you control the
switch and you control the nick, you now
have a true networking fabric that you
can truly program. And you think like a
bunch of the things that you want to go
do like you want to do firewalling, you
want to do do virtual private networks,
you there there are a bunch of things
that you want to be able to do to to
provision a tenant, a bunch of things
that are again way up the stack.
When you don't control all of those
layers, those become really arduous or
impossible. So those are the kinds of
things that that we've been able to do.
um from an observability perspective um
being able to to again see from top to
top to bottom from a performance
perspective being able to know be when
and actually one of the things I I'm
really excited to do we have not done
yet at all uh power management um so
right now the parts have got have got
tremendous power management great power
management capabilities they are
basically all on autopilot which is
pretty good it's great you what you
would like to be able to do is actually
stuff more equipment into a rack have a
rack that actually that where you were
able to dynamically cap how much power
it can draw and then you could say like
all right look so I'm yes I want this
rack this is you know for a Cosmo rack
it will be at like 33kw I want this
thing to only draw 20KW and have you the
control plane decide like which CPU gets
that um and that then allows you to like
really rethink the kind of work that you
then schedule onto that thing and so
there's a bunch of stuff I mean like
that I'm sorry those are are those is
that are those helpful examples that
>> Oh, definitely 100%.
>> Yeah. Um, but no, there's a lot of stuff
that you can only do when you can you
can uniquely cut across that. For sure.
>> Beautiful. Thank you.
>> Yeah.
>> Hi. Um, so I was wondering how you think
about the trade-off between like, you
know, building something quickly so you
can see the ways that it will break
versus going very deep from the get-go.
Like are there places where you kind of
cut a corner and and used something
didn't dig into it so that you could
build the rest of it and then later dug
into it when you needed to kind of
>> Yeah, for sure. And so uh prototyping is
really important. So in in in
are you asking in terms of hardware or
software or both or
>> uh I guess it's kind of both. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So the um for sure. So um on
hardware, one of the things that we
started to do a little bit and then
realized that we weren't doing nearly
enough and then we put the gas pedal on
is building much smaller boards that are
studies in the way a particular
component might work and you can build
those. I mean it has never been easier
to build hardware than it is today. The
for all the kind of hardware is hard you
can go lay out a board you can go
especially like a board that's a simple
board for something that's low speed. I
mean, I think we had a board uh where
that kind of the idea entered Cliff's
head and he had the board out to PCB Way
11 hours later and like and these are
like small boards, but they are boards
that allow you to to to study a much
smaller aspect of the system because
what you want to avoid is having when
you kind of bring that whole system
together, you want to make sure that you
are only debugging the problems then
that you could only debug any problem
that you could debug earlier, you want
to debug earlier. So those things are
like little throwaway boards that we'll
do and iterate very very quickly on them
and then and I think a as time has gone
on we have more of a bias about like do
those fast like don't even don't even
wonder if we should do that or not and
also don't wait I mean one of the
problems we had early is that we would
well we're doing this prototype board
like let's add more to it. It's like,
"No, no, just make like if you want to
make a prototype board to for an idea,
just have it test that one idea. Don't
wait for anybody else. Just go and get
that back and then we can actually have
something we can experiment with." Um,
for sure. And I think that actually
allows you to be much more rigorous
about the system. Does that answer your
question?
>> Yeah, thank you.
>> Yeah, you bet. Uh, we I and I I I should
have said this earlier, but we So, we've
got our we had the On the Metal podcast.
We started the company. We've got an
Oxide and Friends podcast that we
normally record on Mondays, but not
recording it today for obvious reasons.
um the uh and we've got an episode on
the on building protoboards that you
that you'd really like if that's
interesting to you.
>> Yeah. Awesome. Thank you.
>> Yep.
>> Hey, sorry, one more question. So, uh
GPUs have obviously become a big part of
data centers and GPUs.
>> GPUs. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Right. What about
GPUs?
>> Ever heard?
>> Huh? Sorry. Tell me more. Yes. GPUs,
right? Those things.
>> So, how are you guys thinking about like
integrating it into the model that Oxide
has?
>> Yeah, totally. Great question. Yeah. So
the so here are the problem here is the
challenge with GPUs. Um obviously
important. Uh there are two doors. One
is labeled partner with Nvidia and the
other is labeled compete with Nvidia.
And what both of those doors have in
common is death.
as far as I'm concerned the the and the
problem with Nvidia is Nvidia is this
very proprietary island and they want to
take the whole system and I like I don't
you know again it's like bacteria I
don't like fault them for it it's like
the bacteria's fault it's just like it's
doing what bacteria does so they are
trying to build a big and their aim has
been towards expansion
okay super proprietary company though
really really really proprietary company
and makes it really hard. I don't see
I've never seen how we can by partnering
with Nvidia
deliver something that delivers oxide
value. Like I I I just like don't know
what the advantage is over us doing it
versus a super micro sled because I
can't do we can't do any of the the
value that you get.
So I kind of need one of these other
folks to please like can we make that
compete with Nvidia door not be death?
Um, and AMD is obviously super
interesting. Um, they've made a bunch of
interesting moves in that regard. Um, we
will do an accelerator sled for sure.
Um, but it's got to be done in a way
where we can deliver oxide value. We're
not going to do it just because like if
someone wants Nvidia, we're we're we're
the wrong they should just go buy a
super micro box, knock yourself out.
Well, no, I don't like that. Like, well,
I know, but that's that's so um but it's
obviously super important. I mean, I
think it's um it's kind of like we're in
a bit of a wild I mean, obviously a wild
time in many different dimensions. I
don't know how that's going to how
that's going to unfold because right now
the parts that that are being generated
for training in particular are don't
have anywhere near the reliability that
I think people should be able to expect.
I mean, you guys have you all have much
more experience with this than I do, but
some of the failure rates that I've
heard about
are shocking
shocking. And again, like I'm the guy
that obsesses over like 10 discs that
reset, you know, once a week or whatever
like the things that are dead on arrival
um are or have the some of the thermal
issues and so on like that we would need
to be able to deliver a much more robust
system. So we would be looking for a
partner that would allow us to do that.
>> Is there a third door with other
companies that are building inference
accelerators or
>> Sure. The I I love the crazy door. So
that's the crazy door and I love the
crazy door. I'm all for it. So there's
and there's a bunch of stuff that's out
there. Um there's a bunch of um and the
presence of Risk 5 allows people to put
soft cores in front of this stuff where
you can like quickly take because I
think you can make a pretty good
argument that GPUs are actually not
great for inference, right? There's a
lot of of uh of kilowatt hours is being
kind of burned that you could use much
more efficiently. So um I'm all for it.
That'd be great. I what what we what I
would just want and then with a smaller
player this is easier. It's like we just
need to have a transparency at that
hardware software interface and um the
which be but if we have that then we can
go do that. Um and this is the kind of
thing where we would also like really
look to you about like what are the
kinds of things that you're seeing and
you need and we can absolutely go we've
got lots of things that we can go do. We
just want to make sure that we're
delivering something that is actually
valuable. If we can deliver something
that's valuable, we can deliver
something that's really valuable because
you then you do you look at things like
power capping and so power management
will you be able to do it holistically.
Having true multi-tenant support on
these things like the multi-tenency on a
GPU is like real rocky and and the and
again this something you all have more
experience with than I do but it's like
with the CPU we've got great
multi-tenency and I would want to have
those same things on these things that
that that function as accelerators. I
think at the same time you've got a
bunch of these things coming on package
and that's also I mean I've not quite
figured out why AMD is like
disinterested. I I think it's like it's
like don't overthink it. It's like a
kind of what Conway's law thing because
you've got the the accelerators and the
you've you've got the kind of the the
GPUs and the CPUs under the same house
like can't I take these chiplets and
combine them on package which they do in
these things the the the Mi300A they did
this with the these APUs but then
they're like very disinterested in them
and kind of like upset when you're
interested in them. You're like okay
that's all right never mind. Um I I I I
feel like I'm talking about like
throwing you a wedding shower for
someone with whom you're going to break
up. You know what I mean? You're just
like, "Can we just can we not talk about
Bob, please?" Like, and I'm like,
"Okay." Um the um so I we're really
interested in that stuff, but haven't
seen exactly a path. I was saying that
that's kind of what our thinking would
be. Yes. Let me know that if I'm wrong.
>> Thank you.
>> So, um about like your partnership with
AMD. I remember hearing like a while
back that AMD was like looking at open
sourcing like their silicon
initialization stuff.
>> Yes. Has there been
>> open sill?
>> Yeah, open sill. Yeah,
>> there been good progress on that and
influenced the decision to like go with
AMD or I'm not after.
>> Yeah, after. Um, great question. Um,
>> very supportive of open sill. Open sill
is effectively an open bias. They're
taking that lowest layer of silicon
initialization and making and which is
great. Actually, I'll tell you the
reason that that I'm very supportive of
that effort. we were going to open
source our all of our software. This
included a bunch of low layer platform
enablement which we would actually need
AMD's permission to go do. Um and I'm
like oh god and we had some we did at
some some trial balloons of some kind of
orthogonal software that we wanted to
open and it just like got lost in
bureaucratic morass at AMD and I'm like
I'm really not looking forward to that.
Open sill fortunately
made it so we didn't have to ask that
question because open sill effectively
opened up the lowest layers of
implication details that we were relying
on. So we are very supportive of open
sill for that. We are never going to use
open sill ourselves but I think it's
great. So I'm very supportive um because
it allows us to open up our layer um and
very supportive of AMD opening and all
vendors should be opening up all of
their software. Um there was a a a very
interesting moment with the hyperscalers
AMD is learning
people think like look I know we're
crazy but people so we'll say things and
then they they'll hear like you know
I've heard that from other people as
well like you guys are not the only ones
that think that as it turns out it's
like I know that that's I've been
telling you the entire time but so on on
that there are lots of other
hyperscalers that were super interested
in that effort and that AMD was a bit
surprised by I think so um very very
supportive what we said.
>> Thanks. Yep. You bet. Thank you very
much.